Hello!

For making this project, which I have called The Rétrodex (https://pdcoding.github.io/pokedex/), I used an API called the PokéAPI which can be found here: https://pokeapi.co/.

My project allows you to search any Pokémon and it will return a sprite of that character and some information about them. There also a series of modals that when clicked will give you history of the series, the main games in the series, the regions those games cover, the different types of Pokémon and a breakdown of each of the generations and their starters.

After deciding to use the PokéAPI I started going through the database to see what info that I wanted to pull from it for my project. I also drew a sketch of how I thinking of having the page look. Afterwards I set up all the pages that would be invovled. This would be my html, css, and js. With these linked and set up I made sure that I was able to pull data from the API. Using the JSON Viewer Chrome extension, I was able to copy the paths for the data I wanted and make that process much simpler for myself. I then started building out the html: the header, search bar, and the buttons. Then I focused on getting my modals up and running and then the majority of the remaining effort was spent of the styling. When running through fonts on Google I came across the one I ended up using called "Press Start 2P" which was a retro looking font. I decided to focus my styling around this theme and make the modals and search result visuals mimic that of an old GameBoy, the same handheld system that played the original Pokémon games. I added a background and more css elements such as a color change on hover for the buttons. Minor tweaking aside, this brought my project to completion.

Overall, I am very pleased with how my project turned out. Functionally, it works and I really like the desing I implemented.

There were a few things that I wanted to include but wasn't able to due to the way the API was set up and/or time constraints. One feature that I wanted to add was to make the types list interactive. The idea there would be that if you clicked on one of the types that it would take you to a list of Pokémon of that type, but I couldn't figure out how to do that with the API. Another interactive piece I would have like to include would be to allow the user to click on one of the generations and have it take you to a list of those Pokémon, but I ran out of time. I was also interested in having a fade transition for my modal, but time being what it was I wasn't able to add it in time. Definitely something that I would add in future.

I had the most difficulties with the responsiveness. In mobile view mode everything looked fine, but whever I would look at it in laptop view the results would be all the way to the left side. This didn't look great so I had to tinker with a lot of settings in order to make it centered. In the end there was another css rule that was preventing me from centering the results the way that I wanted to. Alo, originally the sprite that populate with the search would be in the column along with the rest of the information. I wanted it to display opposite the info and it took some wrestling with floats/flex in order to get it to display correctly.

Thanks very much for checking out my code!
